on behalf of expert village my name is
karen locasale and i'm here to tell you
about crafting with gourds so we're
going to go ahead and burn the design
that I drew on this gourd and let you
see how that looks so you want to go
slow you don't want to rush it some
gourds the burning process is quickly if
they're a softer gourd and some gourds
still have a bit of a harder shell and
it can take a little longer you can see
right there where that little spot right
there took a little bit quicker so it's
just a matter of practice getting used
to your burner getting used to the
different gourds and you can always go
back over your line if it's not as dark
or as deep as you want so it is better
to go light the first time and then go
back over it again as needed and again
with your different tips they have tips
that allow you to do shading if you
wanted to do some shading some thicker
tips for a wider line or more narrow if
you want the more fine lines again some
of the books out there for gourds also
have different techniques that different
artists have come up with for burning
their designs some that actually look
like a basket weave that sort of thing
so this is kind of you know the artistic
portion of it to make it look how you
want it to look and now you have it
permanently etched onto your gourd